# GradleUtils

**GradleUtils** is a support plugin for NeoForged projects, which provides Git-based versioning and changelog
generation.

## Usage

Apply the plugin to the buildscript as normal (substitute the version with the latest version):

```gradle
plugins {
    id 'net.neoforged.gradleutils' version '3.0.0'
}
```

### Versioning

The `gradleutils` project extension provides access to versioning. To apply the versioning configured in GradleUtils,
use the `version` property on the extension. The returned object will calculate the version when `toString()`ed.

Configuring the versioning is done through the related `version` spec on the extension. (The difference is that
the property to access the calculated version does not accept a closure.) Configuration should be done _before_ the
first time the version is calculated.

```gradle
gradleutils.version {
    // ... configure the version here ...
}
project.version = gradleutils.version
```

### Changelog generation

The `changelog` project extension provides access to changelog generation. The changelog generation will use the same
versioning configuration, as configured in the `gradleutils` project extension.

To generate a changelog, simply call the `from` method on the extension with the earliest revision (tag or commit ID) to
be included. The changelog is generated by the `createChangelog` task, which is linked to the `assemble` task.

By default, the changelog is included in all `MavenPublication` on the project as an artifact with the `-changelog`
classifier, if the `maven-publish` plugin is applied. To manually control the changelog's publishing, call
`disableAutomaticPublicationRegistration()` on the extension, and use the `publish(MavenPublication)` method to attach
the changelog to publications as desired.

```gradle
changelog {
    from '2.0'
    // For fine-grained changelog publication control
    disableAutomaticPublicationRegistration()
}

publishing {
    publications {
        mavenJava(MavenPublication) {
            // ...
            changelog.publish(it) // 'it' refers to the 'mavenJava' publication
        }
    }
}
```

### Immaculate

The `net.neoforged.gradleutils.immaculate` plugin provides integration (a formatter configuration) with [Immaculate](https://github.com/lukebemishprojects/Immaculate).

When you apply the plugin alongside Immaculate, it automatically configures a java workflow.

Example usage in settings.gradle to apply it to all projects that contain java code:

```groovy
plugins {
    id 'net.neoforged.gradleutils' version '4.0.0' apply false
    id 'net.neoforged.gradleutils.immaculate' version '4.0.0' apply false
    id 'dev.lukebemish.immaculate' version '0.1.6' apply false
}

gradle.lifecycle.beforeProject { project ->
    project.plugins.withId("java") {
        apply plugin: 'dev.lukebemish.immaculate'
        apply plugin: 'net.neoforged.gradleutils.immaculate'
    }
}
```

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License, or LGPL, version 2.1 only. See the `LICENSE` file
for the full license text.
